---
layout: post
title:  "Driving Down Web Design Blvd"
excerpt: "My history with Dreamweaver, Bootstrap, and Jekyll, and a brief guide to the pros and cons of each."
---
I started my journey with Dreamweaver in the driver's seat, then ditched Dreamweaver on the side of the road and went on for a while teaching myself how to drive from scratch. Until I finally picked up to two passengers: Bootstrap and Jekyll. Although, bootstrap was relegated to the backseat, where he is constantly arguing with me about what I can and cannot do!

<!-- I was introduced into the world of web design through Adobe Dreamweaver in the very first web design course I ever took. In the preceding course, I was told that Dreamweaver was cheating, and from that point on we were taught to build from scratch. There was a bit more freedom and a lot more learning, but the work was often tedious. Until in my very last web course, my professor mentioned a framework called Bootstrap and gave us a brief introduction to how it works. I loved the idea of grid systems and classes that make designing responsive websites simple, and the components like glyphicons and javascript features were an added bonus. I soon began experimenting with Bootstrap and learning how to customize its features and navigate around some of its more annoying defaults. It wasn't till after the course was over that I really had time to play around with Bootstrap and it was as I was building this website that I was introduced to Jekyll. -->

**Adobe Dreamweaver**

Adobe Dreamweaver is a web development tool for creating websites.
http://www.webdesigndev.com/10-good-and-10-bad-things-about-adobes-dreamweaver/

Pros:
  -Provides templates with basic design layouts
  -Includes basic HTML writing help, such as code highlighting and auto completion options for tags
  -Includes basic file managing
  -Graphic User Interface makes writing the HTML and CSS easy, while also showing a semi-live version of the website
  -Will create all the basic javascript features, such as menu bars, for you
  -In fact, once you learn how to use th program, Dreamweaver will practically make the entire website for you

Cons:
  -Poorly written, broad, and bulky javascript codes
  -Sole use of the Design View Interface can lead to confusing and unnecessary code
  -It is very, very expensive
  And most importantly
  -Dreamweaver will try to take control of your code by whispering promises of how easy web development could be, if you give in, it will wrap you around it's metaphorical finger and make you lazy. In other words, used incorrectly, it will turn you into a web developing zombie.

Conclusion: Dreamweaver can be a very useful tool, the Design View which lets you see and edit your website in a semi-live form is particularly nice. However, while Dreamweaver offers many features that will essentially write the code for you, this sort of complacency has several negative side effects. In conclusion, Dreamweaver is a decent tool for a beginning developer, but should be used sparingly.

**Bootstrap**

**Jekyll**
