---
layout: post
title:  "Degree, or not Degree. That is the question."
excerpt:
---
<p>With tuition prices as high as they are, and significant scholarships only available to a select few, it’s called into
question whether or not earning a degree is really worth the money. After all, going to college is a big commitment,
and the decision of <emphasis>degree, or not degree</emphasis>, is similar to Hamlet’s famous dilemma of whether,“To be, or not to be.” College might not mean the difference between life and death, but it could improve your future life. Or just lead you to a financial death.</p>

<p>What the question really comes down to though isn’t the college or the major you choose, but the end goal of what
career you want to be able to seek out. So many positions require you to have earned certain degrees, many for good
reasons. Would you want to be treated by a doctor or nurse who was self-taught? Of course not. For many careers,
the only possible proof of your ability to perform your job is a degree. It’s unfortunate, but necessary, and the
tuition costs are usually paid off fairly quickly with jobs that are in high demand. But the careers I want to
discuss are the ones where the importance of a degree takes backseat to the experience, skill, and performance
of the individual. Especially in technology fields. But first, some history on the path I chose, and how looking back, I would have done it differently.</p>

<p>Growing up, whether or not I was going to attend college was never called into question. The very idea of NOT
attending college never once crossed my mind. Not until my junior year in high school did I even really consider it
to be a choice I had to make. One of my teachers was speaking to the class about the famous all important Life’s Next Step and said something
innocuous like, “if you decide to go to college.” If. I remember it clearly because it was the first time I realized that some of my fellow classmates might actually choose not to further their education. The first time I realized that I actually had a choice. I still went to college of course; realizing that there was a choice didn’t change the fact that it had been programmed into me that I could never find a good job without a college degree.</p>

<br/>
<strong>Degree: The Reality</strong>
<p>I went the cost-reducing route of attending a two-year community college for seven semesters, and a four-year
university for three semesters, and came out debt free between merit-based scholarships and my part time job.
However, I also came out feeling grossly underprepared for a career in Web Design and Development. But how could
this be? I had spent five years studying, earning perfect marks, and getting more knowledge crammed into my head
then I knew what to do with! And that was just it. I could count on one hand the number of classes that actually
directly pertained to my chosen career path. I had paid thousands and thousands of dollars to learn subjects that I
did not really need to know all that much about. Five different math classes? All I needed was algebra, which I
learned freshman year in high school. Five database classes? Seven programming languages? I didn’t want to be a
database administrator or a programmer, I wanted to design and build websites. While I can see how knowing the
basics about databases could be useful in some cases, I didn’t need even one whole class. Business classes, economics, and humanities added up to almost twenty courses. But they want the students to be “well-rounded.” Students are so rounded they are going to roll right into debt for classes that aren’t even useful to them.</p>

<br/>
<strong>Degree: The Ideal</strong>
<p>So let’s go through and see what courses I think would have been most useful to me as a Web Design and Development major. For those subjects not directly relating to my major, but necessary to create a "well-rounded individual":</p>

<p>Database Basics: 1 course
Programming Basics: 1 course
Business/Economics: 2 courses
(And only because I did attend a university specializing in business-related majors. As a tech major, they could have condensed the useful information into at most two classes)
Humanities/Cultures: 1 course
Math, Science, English: 1 course each (to prove competency)</p>

<p>Now, personally, I would have liked more than four classes that directly relate to designing and developing a
website. I think there should have been at least one per each semester, totally eight courses for a four-year plan.
Then there are the secondary skills such as graphic design and Photoshop, which might prove quite useful in certain web design positions. Those I think the college actually planned out about right, totaling around four. But what about all those other credits that I just cut? Those should have been my electives, where I could look back and say, “hey, I really liked learning about databases in my one required course, maybe I’ll take the next course.” Or, “hm, I feel like I should increase my writing skills.” Now, not all college students are so goal-oriented, so there should be someone at the college that handles scheduling and can stop a student from just taking random, easy-sounding electives. But then, if their required courses are actually tailored to fit the needs of the student, then if that student wants to learn something useless like astronomy, let them (I took astronomy as my required science, it was actually really interesting, useless, but interesting).</p>

<p>Now, the student is just as broke and in-debt as before, but at least they know they spent that money on relevant and useful courses and are now actually feeling fairly well prepared to go out and find that first job.</p>

<br/>
<strong>Not Degree: But Still Kind of Do</strong>
<p>Now, don’t let the subtitle be deceiving, not earning any type of degree might not be the best course of action.
Looking back, I wish that I had just earned my associates degree from community college and stopped there. In two
years, I could have taken the necessary classes to prove I was well-rounded and demonstrate that I am an excellent
learner with my high marks. Also, attending college for two years gives young adults time and resources to discover
what they want to do with their lives by exposing them to various subjects and allowing them to choose their own
electives. However, many positions require a bachelor's degree, not even in a specific subject, so while I might have managed quite well with merely and associates degree and self-training for a technology position, I would not fair as well in my pursuit of a Marketing position. I soon changed my desired career path from computers to marketing after I graduated. Many of the positions I am interested in require at least a general bachelor's degree, if not one specifically in business.</p>

<p>So what do I recommend for other students and potential students in the tech fields? Earning an associates degree and then spending the next year or so learning just that material necessary for your career.</p>
<p>I learned more about design and development in a month from the website, Treehouse Learning, then I did in all
five years of my college career. Granted, the courses I learned in college helped me understand the online lessons
more thoroughly, so someone without prior knowledge would likely take longer to really grasp the lessons. Treehouse
Learning is essentially taking classes online, just as a student would through a university, but for about one-tenth of the cost. An annual subscription to Treehouse is just $250, compared to the $10,000 or so a student would pay at
a public college, if they were lucky. Treehouse has experts to answer questions, video lessons, and plenty of
hands-on activities. It also has a free trial, so students can try Treehouse out and see if online learning is a
good fit for their learning style.</p>
<p>Most students graduate in four or five years, so sticking to that timeframe, we have allotted two years towards
earning an Associates degree, one to two years for learning the material that actually matters, and now have one
year left to build up a portfolio of work. With an Associates degree to prove the student can learn, and a portfolio to prove they have already acquired the necessary skills and competencies, this individual is ready to hit the job market.</p>
